perf: Skip request-body compression for small payloads (#988)
apify/apify-client-python: docs/02_concepts/13_http_compression.mdx

---
id: http-compression
title: HTTP compression
description: The client compresses request bodies automatically using gzip by default, with optional brotli via an explicit opt-in.
---

The Apify client compresses request bodies before sending them to the API. Compression reduces the amount of data transferred over the network, resulting in faster requests and lower bandwidth usage, especially for large payloads such as Actor inputs, dataset uploads, or key-value store records.

## How it works

The client compresses request bodies using the compressor configured via the `compression` parameter (default `'gzip'`). The server supports both gzip and brotli and decompresses the request body transparently.

## Minimum body size

> Bodies smaller than 1024 bytes are sent as they are, with no `Content-Encoding` header. Such a body already fits in a single network packet, so compressing it saves no round trips and only costs CPU time. At the very small end, the framing overhead of the compression format can even make the body larger than the original.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client sends bodies smaller than 1024 bytes without compression and without the `Content-Encoding` header. A body of this size fits in one network packet, so compression doesn't remove a network round trip and only costs CPU time. For very small bodies, the compression format adds bytes and can make the body larger.
```
How about this, to avoid passive voice and make it a lil simpler to read
